Research Luis Rueda Professor School of Computer Science University of Windsor Home Research Interactomics Transcriptomics Machine Learning Publications All DBLP PubMed Google Scholar Teaching Students Prospective Current Past Book Resources News Software Links Research My main research interests and contributions are focused on devising new machine learning algorithms for interactomics and transcriptomics. The main applications are on general problems in these fields and on the role of these in finding biomarkers in breast and prostate cancer, and in another area on the role of these in oral fluids. Below is a summary of my interests and contributions in the respective fields. For more details on my research contributions, refer to my List of Publications.   Interactomics The interactome aims to study the main aspects of proteins interacting in a living system. The interactome is rather dynamic as the interactions and ultimately functions are manifested in a temporal and spatial manner. To understand the complex cellular mechanisms involved in a biological system, it is necessary to study the nature and specificity of these interactions and the dynamics involved in it at the molecular level, for which prediction of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) has played a significant role. My main research in interactomics aims to develop machine learning algorithms for prediction and analysis of PPIs from high-throughput data, understanding the dynamic aspects of these interactions and their relationships with genomic and transcriptional features. One of the key issues I am currently investigating is the integration  of transcriptomics data from RNA-seq with interactomics in applications for the identification of biomarkers that will help understand the transcriptional and genetic mechanisms involved in the development of prostate and breast cancer. More information about my research in this field can be found in the Interactomics page.    Transcriptomics The transcriptome represents the repertoire of transcripts in an organism as the main product of DNA. The Human genome comprises 3 billion bases on each of (on average 1014) cells in one body, where each cell may contain up to 300k RNA molecules. Then, the full transcriptome may contain approximately 8.423 RNA bases... in one body! One cell line/condition, translated to bioinformatics data, could imply 30Mb of microarray data or 30Gb of RNA-seq data, and all cells in one body from petabytes to exabytes. Transcriptomics studies have been traditionally carried out using microarray technologies and the emerging next generation sequencing techniques known as RNA-seq. My main research in transcriptomics has been centered in the main aspects of microarray data analysis, with emphasis on DNA microarray image gridding and segmentation, as well as gene selection, biomarker detection and clustering time-time series gene expression data. Currently, my research focuses on RNA-seq data analysis, aiming at finding relevant enriched regions in RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data and studying the underlying mechanisms of alternative splicing, its relationship with non-coding RNA, with applications to the discovery new biomarkers in breast and prostate cancer. The aim is to understand the relationships between different protein variants produced by alternative splicing and the integration with interactomics: the inherent functions as a result of protein interactions, the domains and motifs involved, and the dynamics of the interactome. More details are in the Transcriptomics page.   Machine Learning Computers can learn like us, from observations, examples, images, sensors, data, and experience. Machine learning is a field of artificial intelligence that involves the design and implementation of algorithms for computers to evolve their behavior from observations, examples, images, sensors, data, and experience, among many other sources. My main research in machine learning is on pattern recognition, a field of machine learning that involves a decision-making process based on pre-defined or learned patterns (one of the many possible definitions). The main focus of my research in pattern recogntion is to devise efficient algorihtms for classification, clustering, feature selection and performance evaluation, with applicaitons to interactomics, transcriptomics and data integration. More information about my research in this field can be found in the Machine Learning page. Back to Top © Luis Rueda 2014
