https://www.javatpoint.com/java-oops-concepts
Java OOPs Concepts - Javatpoint ? Home Java C C++ C# Servlet JSP EJB Struts2 Mail Hibernate Spring Android Design P Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Java Training Basics of Java Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions next ? ? prev Java OOPs Concepts Object-Oriented Programming Advantage of OOPs over Procedure-oriented programming language Difference between Object-oriented and Object-based programming language. In this page, we will learn about the basics of OOPs. Object-Oriented Programming is a paradigm that provides many concepts, such as inheritance, data binding, polymorphism, etc. Simula is considered the first object-oriented programming language. The programming paradigm where everything is represented as an object is known as a truly object-oriented programming language. Smalltalk is considered the first truly object-oriented programming language. The popular object-oriented languages are Java, C#, PHP, Python, C++, etc. The main aim of object-oriented programming is to implement real-world entities, for example, object, classes, abstraction, inheritance, polymorphism, etc. OOPs (Object-Oriented Programming System) Object means a real-world entity such as a pen, chair, table, computer, watch, etc. Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects. It simplifies software development and maintenance by providing some concepts: Object Class Inheritance Polymorphism Abstraction Encapsulation Apart from these concepts, there are some other terms which are used in Object-Oriented design: Coupling Cohesion Association Aggregation Composition Object Any entity that has state and behavior is known as an object. For example, a chair, pen, table, keyboard, bike, etc. It can be physical or logical. An Object can be defined as an instance of a class. An object contains an address and takes up some space in memory. Objects can communicate without knowing the details of each other's data or code. The only necessary thing is the type of message accepted and the type of response returned by the objects. Example: A dog is an object because it has states like color, name, breed, etc. as well as behaviors like wagging the tail, barking, eating, etc. Class Collection of objects is called class. It is a logical entity. A class can also be defined as a blueprint from which you can create an individual object. Class doesn't consume any space. Inheritance When one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object, it is known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism. Polymorphism If one task is performed in different ways, it is known as polymorphism. For example: to convince the customer differently, to draw something, for example, shape, triangle, rectangle, etc. In Java, we use method overloading and method overriding to achieve polymorphism. Another example can be to speak something; for example, a cat speaks meow, dog barks woof, etc. Abstraction Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction. For example phone call, we don't know the internal processing. In Java, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction. Encapsulation Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit are known as encapsulation. For example, a capsule, it is wrapped with different medicines. A java class is the example of encapsulation. Java bean is the fully encapsulated class because all the data members are private here. Coupling Coupling refers to the knowledge or information or dependency of another class. It arises when classes are aware of each other. If a class has the details information of another class, there is strong coupling. In Java, we use private, protected, and public modifiers to display the visibility level of a class, method, and field. You can use interfaces for the weaker coupling because there is no concrete implementation. Cohesion Cohesion refers to the level of a component which performs a single well-defined task. A single well-defined task is done by a highly cohesive method. The weakly cohesive method will split the task into separate parts. The java.io package is a highly cohesive package because it has I/O related classes and interface. However, the java.util package is a weakly cohesive package because it has unrelated classes and interfaces. Association Association represents the relationship between the objects. Here, one object can be associated with one object or many objects. There can be four types of association between the objects: One to One One to Many Many to One, and Many to Many Let's understand the relationship with real-time examples. For example, One country can have one prime minister (one to one), and a prime minister can have many ministers (one to many). Also, many MP's can have one prime minister (many to one), and many ministers can have many departments (many to many). Association can be undirectional or bidirectional. Aggregation Aggregation is a way to achieve Association. Aggregation represents the relationship where one object contains other objects as a part of its state. It represents the weak relationship between objects. It is also termed as a has-a relationship in Java. Like, inheritance represents the is-a relationship. It is another way to reuse objects. Composition The composition is also a way to achieve Association. The composition represents the relationship where one object contains other objects as a part of its state. There is a strong relationship between the containing object and the dependent object. It is the state where containing objects do not have an independent existence. If you delete the parent object, all the child objects will be deleted automatically. Advantage of OOPs over Procedure-oriented programming language 1) OOPs makes development and maintenance easier, whereas, in a procedure-oriented programming language, it is not easy to manage if code grows as project size increases. 2) OOPs provides data hiding, whereas, in a procedure-oriented programming language, global data can be accessed from anywhere. Figure: Data Representation in Procedure-Oriented Programming Figure: Data Representation in Object-Oriented Programming 3) OOPs provides the ability to simulate real-world event much more effectively. We can provide the solution of real word problem if we are using the Object-Oriented Programming language. What is the difference between an object-oriented programming language and object-based programming language? Object-based programming language follows all the features of OOPs except Inheritance. JavaScript and VBScript are examples of object-based programming languages. Do You Know? Can we overload the main method? A Java Constructor returns a value but, what? Can we create a program without main method? What are the six ways to use this keyword? Why is multiple inheritance not supported in Java? Why use aggregation? Can we override the static method? What is the covariant return type? What are the three usages of Java super keyword? Why use instance initializer block? What is the usage of a blank final variable? What is a marker or tagged interface? What is runtime polymorphism or dynamic method dispatch? What is the difference between static and dynamic binding? How downcasting is possible in Java? What is the purpose of a private constructor? What is object cloning? What will we learn in OOPs Concepts? Advantage of OOPs Naming Convention Object and class Method overloading Constructor static keyword this keyword with six usage Inheritance Aggregation Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Abstract class Interface Runtime Polymorphism Static and Dynamic Binding Downcasting with instanceof operator Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Object Cloning Next TopicNaming Convention in Java ? prev next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
