https://www.javatpoint.com/simple-program-of-java
Java Hello World Example | Simple Program of Java - Javatpoint ? Home Java C C++ C# Servlet JSP EJB Struts2 Mail Hibernate Spring Android Design P Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev First Java Program | Hello World Example Software Requirements Creating Hello Java Example Resolving javac is not recognized In this page, we will learn how to write the simple program of java. We can write a simple hello java program easily after installing the JDK. To create a simple java program, you need to create a class that contains the main method. Let's understand the requirement first. The requirement for Java Hello World Example For executing any java program, you need to Install the JDK if you don't have installed it, download the JDK and install it. Set path of the jdk/bin directory. http://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-set-path-in-java Create the java program Compile and run the java program Creating Hello World Example Let's create the hello java program: 
class Simple{
    public static void main(String args[]){
     System.out.println("Hello Java");
    }
}
 Test it Now save this file as Simple.java To compile: javac Simple.java To execute: java Simple 
Output:Hello Java
 Compilation Flow: When we compile Java program using javac tool, java compiler converts the source code into byte code. Parameters used in First Java Program Let's see what is the meaning of class, public, static, void, main, String[], System.out.println(). class keyword is used to declare a class in java. public keyword is an access modifier which represents visibility. It means it is visible to all. static is a keyword. If we declare any method as static, it is known as the static method. The core advantage of the static method is that there is no need to create an object to invoke the static method. The main method is executed by the JVM, so it doesn't require to create an object to invoke the main method. So it saves memory. void is the return type of the method. It means it doesn't return any value. main represents the starting point of the program. String[] args is used for command line argument. We will learn it later. System.out.println() is used to print statement. Here, System is a class, out is the object of PrintStream class, println() is the method of PrintStream class. We will learn about the internal working of System.out.println statement later. To write the simple program, you need to open notepad by start menu -> All Programs -> Accessories -> notepad and write a simple program as displayed below: As displayed in the above diagram, write the simple program of java in notepad and saved it as Simple.java. To compile and run this program, you need to open the command prompt by start menu -> All Programs -> Accessories -> command prompt. To compile and run the above program, go to your current directory first; my current directory is c:\new. Write here: To compile: javac Simple.java To execute: java Simple How many ways can we write a Java program There are many ways to write a Java program. The modifications that can be done in a Java program are given below: 1) By changing the sequence of the modifiers, method prototype is not changed in Java. Let's see the simple code of the main method. 
static public void main(String args[])
 2) The subscript notation in Java array can be used after type, before the variable or after the variable. Let's see the different codes to write the main method. 
public static void main(String[] args)
public static void main(String []args)
public static void main(String args[])
 3) You can provide var-args support to the main method by passing 3 ellipses (dots) Let's see the simple code of using var-args in the main method. We will learn about var-args later in Java New Features chapter. 
public static void main(String... args)
 4) Having a semicolon at the end of class is optional in Java. Let's see the simple code. 
class A{
static public void main(String... args){
System.out.println("hello java4");
}
};
 Valid java main method signature 
public static void main(String[] args)
public static void main(String []args)
public static void main(String args[])
public static void main(String... args)
static public void main(String[] args)
public static final void main(String[] args)
final public static void main(String[] args)
final strictfp public static void main(String[] args)
 Invalid java main method signature 
public void main(String[] args)
static void main(String[] args)
public void static main(String[] args)
abstract public static void main(String[] args)
 Resolving an error "javac is not recognized as an internal or external command"? If there occurs a problem like displayed in the below figure, you need to set path. Since DOS doesn't know javac or java, we need to set path. The path is not required in such a case if you save your program inside the JDK/bin directory. However, it is an excellent approach to set the path. Click here for How to set path in java. Next TopicInternal details of Hello Java Program ? prev next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
