https://www.javatpoint.com/java-tutorial
Java Tutorial | Learn Java - javatpoint ? Home Java C C++ C# Servlet JSP EJB Struts2 Mail Hibernate Spring Android Design P Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? Java Tutorial Our core Java programming tutorial is designed for students and working professionals. Java is an object-oriented, class-based, concurrent, secured and general-purpose computer-programming language. It is a widely used robust technology. What is Java Java is a programming language and a platform. Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language. Java was developed by Sun Microsystems (which is now the subsidiary of Oracle) in the year 1995. James Gosling is known as the father of Java. Before Java, its name was Oak. Since Oak was already a registered company, so James Gosling and his team changed the Oak name to Java. Platform: Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs, is known as a platform. Since Java has a runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called a platform. Java Example Let's have a quick look at Java programming example. A detailed description of Hello Java example is available in next page. 
class Simple{
    public static void main(String args[]){
     System.out.println("Hello Java");
    }
}
 Test it Now Application According to Sun, 3 billion devices run Java. There are many devices where Java is currently used. Some of them are as follows: Desktop Applications such as acrobat reader, media player, antivirus, etc. Web Applications such as irctc.co.in, javatpoint.com, etc. Enterprise Applications such as banking applications. Mobile Embedded System Smart Card Robotics Games, etc. Types of Java Applications There are mainly 4 types of applications that can be created using Java programming: 1) Standalone Application Standalone applications are also known as desktop applications or window-based applications. These are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. Examples of standalone application are Media player, antivirus, etc. AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone applications. 2) Web Application An application that runs on the server side and creates a dynamic page is called a web application. Currently, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, etc. technologies are used for creating web applications in Java. 3) Enterprise Application An application that is distributed in nature, such as banking applications, etc. is called enterprise application. It has advantages of the high-level security, load balancing, and clustering. In Java, EJB is used for creating enterprise applications. 4) Mobile Application An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications. Java Platforms / Editions There are 4 platforms or editions of Java: 1) Java SE (Java Standard Edition) It is a Java programming platform. It includes Java programming APIs such as java.lang, java.io, java.net, java.util, java.sql, java.math etc. It includes core topics like OOPs, String, Regex, Exception, Inner classes, Multithreading, I/O Stream, Networking, AWT, Swing, Reflection, Collection, etc. 2) Java EE (Java Enterprise Edition) It is an enterprise platform which is mainly used to develop web and enterprise applications. It is built on the top of the Java SE platform. It includes topics like Servlet, JSP, Web Services, EJB, JPA, etc. 3) Java ME (Java Micro Edition) It is a micro platform which is mainly used to develop mobile applications. 4) JavaFX It is used to develop rich internet applications. It uses a light-weight user interface API. Prerequisite To learn Java, you must have the basic knowledge of C/C++ programming language. Audience Our Java programming tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problem We assure that you will not find any problem in this Java tutorial. However, if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. Do You Know? What is the difference between JRE and JVM? What is the purpose of JIT compiler? Can we save the java source file without any name? Why java uses the concept of Unicode system? What will we learn in Basics of Java? History of Java Features of Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? Difference between JDK,JRE and JVM Internal Details of JVM Variable and Data Type Unicode System Operators Next TopicHistory of Java next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
