https://www.javatpoint.com/artificial-intelligence-tutorial
AI Tutorial | Artificial Intelligence Tutorial - Javatpoint ? Home DBMS AI Blockchain HTML CSS JavaScript Selenium DS Control System Java Selenium jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training AI Tutorial AI Tutorial AI Introduction Application of AI History of AI Types of AI Intelligent Agent Types of Agents Intelligent Agent Agent Environment Turing Test in AI Problem-solving Search Algorithms Uninformed Search Algorithm Informed Search Algorithms Hill Climbing Algorithm Means-Ends Analysis Adversarial Search Adversarial search Minimax Algorithm Alpha-Beta Pruning Knowledge Represent Knowledge Based Agent Knowledge Representation Knowledge Representation Techniques Propositional Logic Rules of Inference The Wumpus world knowledge-base for Wumpus World First-order logic Knowledge Engineering in FOL Inference in First-Order Logic Unification in FOL Resolution in FOL Forward Chaining and backward chaining Backward Chaining vs Forward Chaining Reasoning in AI Inductive vs. Deductive reasoning Uncertain Knowledge R. Probabilistic Reasoning in AI Bayes theorem in AI Bayesian Belief Network Subsets of AI Subsets of AI Expert Systems Machine Learning Tutorial NLP Tutorial Related Tutorials Tensorflow Tutorial PyTorch Tutorial Data Science Tutorial Reinforcement Learning next ? Artificial Intelligence Tutorial The Artificial Intelligence tutorial provides an introduction to AI which will help you to understand the concepts behind Artificial Intelligence. In this tutorial, we have also discussed various popular topics such as History of AI, applications of AI, deep learning, machine learning, natural language processing, Reinforcement learning, Q-learning, Intelligent agents, Various search algorithms, etc. Our AI tutorial is prepared from an elementary level so you can easily understand the complete tutorial from basic concepts to the high-level concepts. What is Artificial Intelligence? In today's world, technology is growing very fast, and we are getting in touch with different new technologies day by day. Here, one of the booming technologies of computer science is Artificial Intelligence which is ready to create a new revolution in the world by making intelligent machines.The Artificial Intelligence is now all around us. It is currently working with a variety of subfields, ranging from general to specific, such as self-driving cars, playing chess, proving theorems, playing music, Painting, etc. AI is one of the fascinating and universal fields of Computer science which has a great scope in future. AI holds a tendency to cause a machine to work as a human. Artificial Intelligence is composed of two words Artificial and Intelligence, where Artificial defines "man-made," and intelligence defines "thinking power", hence AI means "a man-made thinking power." So, we can define AI as: "It is a branch of computer science by which we can create intelligent machines which can behave like a human, think like humans, and able to make decisions." Artificial Intelligence exists when a machine can have human based skills such as learning, reasoning, and solving problems With Artificial Intelligence you do not need to preprogram a machine to do some work, despite that you can create a machine with programmed algorithms which can work with own intelligence, and that is the awesomeness of AI. It is believed that AI is not a new technology, and some people says that as per Greek myth, there were Mechanical men in early days which can work and behave like humans. Why Artificial Intelligence? Before Learning about Artificial Intelligence, we should know that what is the importance of AI and why should we learn it. Following are some main reasons to learn about AI: With the help of AI, you can create such software or devices which can solve real-world problems very easily and with accuracy such as health issues, marketing, traffic issues, etc. With the help of AI, you can create your personal virtual Assistant, such as Cortana, Google Assistant, Siri, etc. With the help of AI, you can build such Robots which can work in an environment where survival of humans can be at risk. AI opens a path for other new technologies, new devices, and new Opportunities. Goals of Artificial Intelligence Following are the main goals of Artificial Intelligence: Replicate human intelligence Solve Knowledge-intensive tasks An intelligent connection of perception and action Building a machine which can perform tasks that requires human intelligence such as: Proving a theorem Playing chess Plan some surgical operation Driving a car in traffic Creating some system which can exhibit intelligent behavior, learn new things by itself, demonstrate, explain, and can advise to its user. What Comprises to Artificial Intelligence? Artificial Intelligence is not just a part of computer science even it's so vast and requires lots of other factors which can contribute to it. To create the AI first we should know that how intelligence is composed, so the Intelligence is an intangible part of our brain which is a combination of Reasoning, learning, problem-solving perception, language understanding, etc. To achieve the above factors for a machine or software Artificial Intelligence requires the following discipline: Mathematics Biology Psychology Sociology Computer Science Neurons Study Statistics Advantages of Artificial Intelligence Following are some main advantages of Artificial Intelligence: High Accuracy with less errors: AI machines or systems are prone to less errors and high accuracy as it takes decisions as per pre-experience or information. High-Speed: AI systems can be of very high-speed and fast-decision making, because of that AI systems can beat a chess champion in the Chess game. High reliability: AI machines are highly reliable and can perform the same action multiple times with high accuracy. Useful for risky areas: AI machines can be helpful in situations such as defusing a bomb, exploring the ocean floor, where to employ a human can be risky. Digital Assistant: AI can be very useful to provide digital assistant to the users such as AI technology is currently used by various E-commerce websites to show the products as per customer requirement. Useful as a public utility: AI can be very useful for public utilities such as a self-driving car which can make our journey safer and hassle-free, facial recognition for security purpose, Natural language processing to communicate with the human in human-language, etc. Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence Every technology has some disadvantages, and thesame goes for Artificial intelligence. Being so advantageous technology still, it has some disadvantages which we need to keep in our mind while creating an AI system. Following are the disadvantages of AI: High Cost: The hardware and software requirement of AI is very costly as it requires lots of maintenance to meet current world requirements. Can't think out of the box: Even we are making smarter machines with AI, but still they cannot work out of the box, as the robot will only do that work for which they are trained, or programmed. No feelings and emotions: AI machines can be an outstanding performer, but still it does not have the feeling so it cannot make any kind of emotional attachment with human, and may sometime be harmful for users if the proper care is not taken. Increase dependency on machines: With the increment of technology, people are getting more dependent on devices and hence they are losing their mental capabilities. No Original Creativity: As humans are so creative and can imagine some new ideas but still AI machines cannot beat this power of human intelligence and cannot be creative and imaginative. Prerequisite Before learning about Artificial Intelligence, you must have the fundamental knowledge of following so that you can understand the concepts easily: Any computer language such as C, C++, Java, Python, etc.(knowledge of Python will be an advantage) Knowledge of essential Mathematics such as derivatives, probability theory, etc. Audience Our AI tutorial is designed specifically for beginners and also included some high-level concepts for professionals. Problems We assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning our AI tutorial. But if there any mistake, kindly post the problem in the contact form. Next TopicApplication of AI next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
