https://www.javatpoint.com/sonoo-jaiswal
Sonoo Jaiswal (Founder of Javatpoint) - javatpoint ? Home Python Java PHP JavaScript C++ C# Aptitude Reasoning Programs Selenium DS DBMS C SQL Android HTML Interview Q Training Sonoo Jaiswal (Founder of Javatpoint) Hi, first of all, thanks for visiting this page. This page is all about me - Sonoo Jaiswal (Founder of Javatpoint). You will get exciting things about my life. About Javatpoint: Success is all about taking new initiatives. I started developing Javatpoint in the year 2011. At that time, I was providing training on Java. Meanwhile, I thought, why not to spread my knowledge to the world. So I started developing Javatpoint on Java using the Struts 2 framework. At that time, struts 2 was the leading web framework. I told one of my students to convert the Java programs into the HTML files. He converted all the files, I added some description about the page and put it on the website. After that, I added Spring and Hibernate, day by day. Later, I added too many technologies. In 2013, I left the Job and set up a small business in Ghaziabad, and I hired some employees on content and training both. In 2 years, Javatpoint grew up from 1 to 10 employees. In 2015, I shifted my office location, Ghaziabad to Noida. In 4 years, I have achieved many things and learned a lot; and now the team size is 75. So we are growing day by day. Our motto is to have 1000+ employees. Here, 50 employees are in content development and rest in Management, Development, Training and Digital Marketing. Currently, I have two offices in Noida and I started the night shift working for US clients as well. Why I started the Javatpoint: If you try to help others, God will help you surely. A student from another teacher came to me and said, Sir I asked for the slide (PPT) from the Sir (Don't want to mention any name) to my sir and he scolded me. I told him not to worry, we are nothing; we haven't made Java, we are just delivering the things in a better way, since I don't use any PPT, I will put all my notes on the web, you people can learn from there. It was just to help the students. I was unaware of any kind of business. Why Javatpoint Name: I searched a lot of good names on the web, but all were registered. Since I was providing training in Mohan Nagar, Ghaziabad (Delhi/NCR), there was a tpoint which was very famous. So I just added tpoint with Java and checked on the net if it is registered or not. Thankfully, It was not registered. So, I registered this domain. In my opinion, name doesn't matter too much, work matters a lot. I thought, if I could work better to the existing site, it will be famous one day. And, thank God, now all the software professionals and students know about it. About Me: What to say about myself, I don't know. I am a simple guy from childhood, keen to learn new things and implement new ideas. Never worried about what I don't have. What I have is the best thing. I was born in Baskhari, Ambedkar Nagar, UP, India. It is near to Ayodhya. Currently, I am living in Cleo County, Noida (Delhi/NCR). Sports: If you play sports, you fail sometimes, and it teaches you keep going. In childhood, I was enjoying playing games like I Spy, Lattu (spinning top), Flying kite, Gilli Danda, Badminton, Ludo and marble (kancha). Later on I started playing Cricket, I played cricket to District Level, I played too many tournaments, and host one tournament also. After the 12th, I left everything, because I was out of home. It was not the metro city, so there was the limited scope and family was not supporting the Cricket so I became the career-oriented guy. Education: My grandfather was supporting a school, so I got education from 1 to 3 in the school, I don't have too many memories of that time, we were using kalam-dawat, there was no pencil or pen facility, electricity was the main problem there. We were using Dhebri (handmade with medicine bottle, kerosene oil and a cloth), later on Lantern. There were only 4-5 hours electricity available at that time. I studied 4th and 5th in Ambedkar School, Baskhari. I switched from there after that. I studied 6 to 8th in the government school because of the better education. Art Stream: Now it was the time to choose the stream, Art, Commerce or Science. My elder brothers suggested me to go for the Art side, it will be easier for you. So I opted the Art side. I studied 9 to 12th from Heera Lal Jaiswal Inter College, Kichhauchha. It was 3 km away from my home. Interest in Computer: After completing the 12th, I asked my parents to go to Allahabad for the preparation of IAS/PCS (Civil Services), I was suggested to do the BA from the Saket, Ayodhya. So, I did my BA (Bachelor of Arts) from the Saket college, but there was the problem of student union leaders. Everybody was talking about politics in college. The students who were not studying getting the same result as the hardworking students. After completing the first year of BA, I decided to do the computer course. Someone suggested me to do the course of DOEACC O Level from Faizabad (2 km from Ayodhya). They told me, it will be very hard to clear the exam, I said, I'll go for it. O Level, A Level, Java Certification and MSC-IT: During the BA 2nd Year, I started O Level computer course (4 papers: Computer Fundamentals, Business & FoxPro, Internet and C Programming). I was very happy that I am getting the result of what I am doing. After learning the O Level, I asked my teachers what's next. I was suggested for A Level (7 papers: Computer Architecture, Software Engineering, Data Structures, DBMS, OS and Linux, Computer Network, C++/Java), but there was no institute of A level in Faizabad at that time. Without waiting for the result of O Level, I went to Lucknow and studied the A level. Meanwhile, I got to know that I have one backlog in C programming. During the BA 3rd year, I studied A Level (equivalent of PGDCA/BCA). In the first 6 months, I studied the 3 papers of A level and cleared the exam of O Level. Then, in the next semester I studied the rest 4 papers. I studied in libraries with too many books at that time. I had given the exam of A level with all 7 papers. I asked with my teachers, what's next. They told me you can do .Net, CCNA, MCSE, Database Administration or Java. They told me, Java is hard to learn and there is no better institute of Java certification in Lucknow. You need to go to Delhi if you choose. I decided, I will choose the hard. Again, without waiting for the result, I came to Delhi and learned Java. Meanwhile, I got to know that all papers of A level are cleared. I said, thank God! While doing the Java certification, I did the MSC-IT (1 year course after A Level). I did Java Certification: SCJP with 97% score, and cleared the exam of MSC-IT. Job, MCA, M.Tech: Now the time was to get job, it was the recession, some companies were firing the employees. I given interviews in IT companies, BPO's and Call Centers. But, I was not able to get the Job. Then, I decided to teach Java to bear my expenses. So, I called the institute from where I did my A Level. One of its branches was in Noida (Delhi/NCR). They told me there is no such requirement, but there is a candidate who wants to learn Core .Net (C#). I said OK, I am ready. I provided the training on C# and get 1500 rupees. Then, they have given me the batch of 5 candidates on the basis of Good feedback. After 4 months, I applied to another institute for the Java Trainer. I got selected there. During the training period, I was also doing MCA (1-year course after MSC-IT) from PTU (Punjab Technical University). After 4 months, I received a call from another institute that we have an opening for the Java Trainer. I had given interview there. In the last round, they asked me how much do you rate yourself out of 10. I said, 9. They asked why not 10, I told them because no one is perfect in this world. They asked why 9, I told them you can ask anything on Java. They told me, we need a trainer who can provide project training on Advance Java for a college, Birla Institute of Applied Sciences, Bhimtal, Nainital. I told them, give me a chance to go there, if there is any wrong feedback, I will quit the Job. I got selected and given project training in the college. There were around 65 students. My feedback was very good there, students of the college were too good as well. I spent almost 3 years in that institute, and also doing M.Tech, then I decided to leave the job and start my own business. Business: I started SSS IT Pvt Ltd for the training and development in Ghaziabad (Delhi/NCR). Javatpoint was the best product from where people were getting knowledge free of cost. When I moved to Noida, I promoted Javatpoint because it had become a well known name. After setting up the things in Noida in 1 year, I left providing training and involved myself fully on business. I hired too many employees on content, development and training. Now, we are getting 25 to 30 million traffic in a month (1000000 daily). Side by side, I opened a Gym and a travel company and running it successfully. Actually, I don't want to be one-dimensional. There are too many eras where we can get growth in business. So, I don't hesitate about trying new things. Failures: You can't get success without failures. After doing the 8th, I was not able to crack the entrance exam of a college. After doing the 12th, I failed in the entrance exam of BA. It happened because I was weak in General Knowledge at that time. But, I was the master of my subject. Struggle: You can't get success without struggle, determination, hard work and decision-making ability. I don't want to specify my struggle here because, in the end, result matters. Future Aspect: I always think: "It's just a beginning". I have to achieve more. I have the option to sell my website in 50 crores. But, I don't bound myself in 50 or 100 crores. I want to see my growth endless. It's not my dream to touch the sky, I want to go beyond the sky. Finally, I would like to say, It's just the beginning. Belief in God: I have a strong belief in the existence of God. I think we are made of energy. One day, we will lose our energy (Aatma in Hindi), and it will go to the God again (Parmatma in Hindi). About Success: Everybody has different thoughts on Success. What are the key points to get successful? Luck! May be but not all the time. There are a lot of factors that makes a person successful: positive thinking nature, your goal: you must know what do you have to do in life, decision-making ability, your working nature in setback and failures, time management: what are you doing now and what will you do in future, ready to take risks, and innovative ideas. Being ideal defines your success. At the end: Death is the bitter truth of life and it is the universal truth. But, before this, I have to do something inspiring, and be an ideal. Be My Friend: I always like to make new friends. Follow me on Facebook or Instagram and be connected with me. Facebook Profile: https://www.facebook.com/sonoo.jaiswal.1 Instagram Profile: https://www.instagram.com/jaiswalsonoo/ Pics Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
