https://www.javatpoint.com/hibernate-tutorial
Learn Hibernate Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Core Java Servlet JSP Struts2 Mail API Hibernate Spring Android Design Pattern Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Hibernate Tutorial HB Introduction HB Architecture First Hibernate Example Hibernate with Eclipse HB using XML HB using Annotation Hibernate Example HB Web application HB Generator classes HB Dialects Hibernate Log4j HB with Log4j 1 HB with Log4j 2 Inheritance Mapping Inheritance Mapping Table Per Hierarchy TPH using Annotation Table Per Concrete TPC using Annotation Table Per Subclass TPS using Annotation Hibernate Mapping Collection Mapping Mapping List Mapping Bag Mapping Set Mapping Map One To Many XML One To Many Annotation Many To Many XML Many To Many Annotation One To One XML One To One Annotation Many To One XML Many To One Annotation Bidirectional Lazy Collection Component Mapping Tx Management Tx Management HQL HQL HCQL HCQL Named Query Named Query Hibernate Caching Hibernate Caching Second Level Cache Second Level Cache Integration Hibernate and Struts Hibernate and Spring Misc Hibernate Configuration JPA vs. Hibernate Hibernate Lifecycle Hibernate Interview Interview Questions next ? Hibernate Tutorial This hibernate tutorial provides in-depth concepts of Hibernate Framework with simplified examples. It was started in 2001 by Gavin King as an alternative to EJB2 style entity bean. Hibernate Framework Hibernate is a Java framework that simplifies the development of Java application to interact with the database. It is an open source, lightweight, ORM (Object Relational Mapping) tool. Hibernate implements the specifications of JPA (Java Persistence API) for data persistence. ORM Tool An ORM tool simplifies the data creation, data manipulation and data access. It is a programming technique that maps the object to the data stored in the database. The ORM tool internally uses the JDBC API to interact with the database. What is JPA? Java Persistence API (JPA) is a Java specification that provides certain functionality and standard to ORM tools. The javax.persistence package contains the JPA classes and interfaces. Advantages of Hibernate Framework Following are the advantages of hibernate framework: 1) Open Source and Lightweight Hibernate framework is open source under the LGPL license and lightweight. 2) Fast Performance The performance of hibernate framework is fast because cache is internally used in hibernate framework. There are two types of cache in hibernate framework first level cache and second level cache. First level cache is enabled by default. 3) Database Independent Query HQL (Hibernate Query Language) is the object-oriented version of SQL. It generates the database independent queries. So you don't need to write database specific queries. Before Hibernate, if database is changed for the project, we need to change the SQL query as well that leads to the maintenance problem. 4) Automatic Table Creation Hibernate framework provides the facility to create the tables of the database automatically. So there is no need to create tables in the database manually. 5) Simplifies Complex Join Fetching data from multiple tables is easy in hibernate framework. 6) Provides Query Statistics and Database Status Hibernate supports Query cache and provide statistics about query and database status. Hibernate Index Hibernate Tutorial Hibernate Introduction Hibernate Architecture First Hibernate Example Hibernate with Eclipse Hibernate using XML Hibernate using Annotation Hibernate Example Hibernate Web application Hibernate Generator classes Hibernate Dialects Hibernate Log4j Hibernate with Log4j 1 Hibernate with Log4j 2 Inheritance Mapping Inheritance Mapping Table Per Hierarchy TPH using Annotation Table Per Concrete TPC using Annotation Table Per Subclass TPS using Annotation Hibernate Mapping Collection Mapping Mapping List Mapping Bag Mapping Set Mapping Map One To Many XML One To Many Annotation Many To Many XML Many To Many Annotation One To One XML One To One Annotation Many To One XML Many To One Annotation Bidirectional Lazy Collection Component Mapping Tx Management Tx Management HQL HQL HCQL HCQL Named Query Named Query Hibernate Caching Hibernate Caching Second Level Cache Second Level Cache Integration Hibernate and Struts Hibernate and Spring Interview Questions Hibernate Interview Questions Next TopicHibernate Architecture next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
