https://www.javatpoint.com/tally
Tally Tutorial | What is Tally - javatpoint ? Home Tally Computer Fundamentals Computer Graphics Computer Network Python Java HTML CSS jQuery Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Tally Tutorial Tally Tutorial Features of Tally Download Tally Start Tally Screen Components Tally Configuration Accounting Features Inventory Features Statutory & Taxation Accounting Master Create Company Alter, Delete, Shut Company Tally Groups Tally Create Group Create Single Ledger Create Multiple Ledgers Create Cost Centre Create Inventory Tally Stock Group Create Single Stock Group Create of Multiple Stock Groups Create Stock Category Creation of Godowns/Location Create Stock Units Create Stock Items GST in Tally Activate GST Payroll in Tally Payroll Configuration Enable Payroll Enable Payroll Statutory Define Employee Category Create Employee Groups Create Employee Master Data Create Simple Payroll Units Create Compound Payroll Units Vouchers in Tally Create Purchase Voucher Create Sales Voucher Creating Receipt Voucher Create Credit Notes TDS Configuration, Entries & Returns next ? Tally Tutorial Tally Tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of Tally. Our Tally tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. What is Tally Tally is an ERP accounting software package that is used to record day to day business data of a company. The latest version of Tally is Tally ERP 9. Tally ERP 9 Software is one of the most financial accounting systems used in India. For small and medium enterprises, it is complete enterprise software. It is a GST software with an ideal combination of function, control, and inbuilt customisability. ERP 9is the best accounting software. This software can integrate with other business applications like Inventory, Finance, Sales, Payroll, Purchasing, etc. Tally software is used for storing all the business transactions of each account in detail. Tally has made calculations simple. Tally has become part of all businesses. Small scale enterprises believe that Tally software carries out efficient business transactions, provides accuracy, and saves a lot of time. Manual calculations are time-consuming; that's why all the organizations use Tally. Because of Tally, the chances of error are reduced to a great extent. The Tally software can learn at home or designated institutes. It is self-explanatory and easy to learn. Tally is cost-effective and time-saving. It also ensures accuracy in business management. It enables the digitalization of bills and signatures, thus staying up-to-date with the latest technology. Using the Tally ERP 9 Training, the owner of a small shop can also manage his store, keep records of customer bills, and manage financial transactions efficiently. Versions of Tally Tally 4.5 was the first version of Tally. It was released in 1990. This software is based on MS-Dos. Tally 5.4 was the second version of Tally. It was released in 1996. It was a graphic interface version. Tally 6.3 was the third version of Tally. It was released in 2001. This version was window based. It supports printing and implementing with VAT (Value Added Tax). Tally 7.2 was the next version of Tally. It was released in 2005. It was added with new features of the Statutory complimentary version and VAT rules as par state wise. Tally 8.1 was the next version of Tally. It was developed with a new data structure. It was added with new features of Point of Sale (POS) and Payroll. The next version was Tally 9. It was released in 2006. This version was released due to bugs and errors. This version has maximum features such as TDS, FBT, Payroll, E-TDS filling, etc. The latest version of Tally is ERP 9. It was released in 2009. Tally ERP 9 package is offering maximum features for small to large business industries. It also updates with new features of (Goods & Services Tax) GST. Prerequisite Before learning Tally, you must have the basic knowledge of Accounting. Audience Our Tally tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problems We assure that you will not find any problem with this Tally Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. Next TopicFeatures of Tally next ? Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Openpyxl Tally Godot Spring Boot Gradle UML ANN ES6 Flutter Selenium Py Firebase Cobol Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
